Hello.
NOTE CONF
Welcome to week eight of LA.
Um, I hope the course is going well so far.
NOTE CONF
Um, this week, uh, is a very important week because
it's, uh, a week in which we look back at
NOTE CONF
some results that we have already started in the course,
and we extend it to more general structures.
NOTE CONF
We know about linear transformation in R2 and R3, and
we know about vector orthogonality in R2 and R3.
NOTE CONF
But this week we're going to extend that to our
end.
NOTE CONF
And this is really what mathematics is about.
Uh, recycling uh, properties and objects and things that we
NOTE CONF
know already in familiar spaces and translate that onto something
that is more complicated.
NOTE CONF
So even if we do not have any geometric insight
about what our N looks like, because it goes beyond
NOTE CONF
what we can model with our everyday experience, because we
live in three dimension.
NOTE CONF
Mathematics allows us to write interesting results and interesting properties
beyond that by using what we know.
NOTE CONF
So to be a little bit more specific, this week
is divided, as you know, in two lessons today we
NOTE CONF
will do dot product orthogonality length Cauchy-Schwarz distances, triangle inequality
and tomorrow will all be about similarity Eigen eigenvectors eigenvalues
NOTE CONF
and eigenspaces.
I have covered these topics in videos.
NOTE CONF
This time I put them in the reading.
Can you just tell me did the video work?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Because last time we had some problems because they were
NOTE CONF
in the reading quiz.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
It was included in the reading.
In the reading instructions.
NOTE CONF
Is that.
Is this creating any confusion?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, let's start.
So the structure of today's, um, of today's lesson will
NOTE CONF
be the usual one.
We're going to do some exercises on this content.
NOTE CONF
And uh, so let's start by logging in into the
book club of the, of the um, of the lesson
NOTE CONF
please.
I'm just going to split the screen so I can
NOTE CONF
continue on one.
And and we jump straight into into that.
NOTE CONF
Um, with the first question that I will open on
bookclub in a moment, I'll give you some more time
NOTE CONF
to scan the QR code.
And the first question we start very simple.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I give you the length of two vectors and
the value of the scalar product.
NOTE CONF
And then I'm asking you for the length of some
linear combination of the two of the two vectors.
NOTE CONF
And what I ask you to do is To input
the value, the numerical value of that expression based on
NOTE CONF
the length of the vector and their scalar product.
I'll give you a few minutes to think about it.
NOTE CONF
Sketch down some calculations.
You can then enter the number directly in bookclub, and
NOTE CONF
then we will go it together through it.
And then sort of halfway through, I will drop a
NOTE CONF
hint to let you know how to do that.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so the first questions are in.
I can see that zero and six are the two
NOTE CONF
most common ones.
I'm just going to drop the hint right now.
NOTE CONF
Uh, in the reading for today, there was a formula
that you might find useful, which is uh, the one
NOTE CONF
from example, 5.3.2, which gives you the, um, the expression
for what we're trying to calculate.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So zero and six seem to be the most common
NOTE CONF
values that you come up with.
Um, let's go through this together, shall we?
NOTE CONF
Um, we can simply apply the, uh, property that, um,
we, we just saw.
NOTE CONF
And the idea here is that, uh, the linear combination
splits up in two contributions.
NOTE CONF
One that depends only on the length of the vectors
and one that depends on the other scalar product.
NOTE CONF
And then we can calculate each term independently.
And if you run through the calculation six was indeed
NOTE CONF
the correct answer.
So uh, very well done, most of you.
NOTE CONF
Uh, just one thing that I noticing someone put in
minus six.
NOTE CONF
Uh, now, I don't want to pick on you, but,
uh, I'm asking for a square length.
NOTE CONF
Okay?
So immediately negative values should be discarded because, uh.
NOTE CONF
Uh, because length are defined positive already.
Uh, or rather non-negative because the length can be zero.
NOTE CONF
When is the length zero?
There's only one vector whose length is zero.
NOTE CONF
Yes, the length is always positive unless the vector is
zero, in which case is zero, so it's non-negative.
NOTE CONF
But then we square it as well.
So um something squared is also non-negative by definition.
NOTE CONF
Um okay.
Let uh prove this.
NOTE CONF
Uh, this proposition which was uh, in the reading.
Let me just switch back.
NOTE CONF
Uh, full screen.
Um, we have uh, the proposition A x plus b
NOTE CONF
length squared equals to that.
Uh, how would you approach proving this?
NOTE CONF
Can you throw some ideas at me?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
yes.
We write the length as the.
NOTE CONF
Yes, we use the definition of the length, which is
defined in terms of the dot of the of the
NOTE CONF
dot product.
So we know that the length is defined as the
NOTE CONF
square root of the dot product of the vector with
itself.
NOTE CONF
So squared length will just be the dot product with
the vector with itself.
NOTE CONF
And then we can distribute the dot product between axe
plus b and itself.
NOTE CONF
And we get all the terms that, uh, that we
want.
NOTE CONF
Except now these two terms here are now expressed in
the terms of the dot product.
NOTE CONF
But no harm is done because then we can move
back with the definition of length, uh, to get the
NOTE CONF
result that we wanted.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the square length of, uh, I don't remember what
it was, was two x minus three y was six
NOTE CONF
for that reason, the length itself was the square root
of that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Do you have any questions about this?
NOTE CONF
Uh, this first this first question.
Okay, excellent.
NOTE CONF
So let's move on to the second one.
Let me switch back to half and half.
NOTE CONF
And now now I'm going to close this though because
I don't want you to peek at this.
NOTE CONF
The next question is a staple of Allah.
You know this format I put in some statements.
NOTE CONF
Some are true, some are false.
I made them up, or I corrupted some true statements
NOTE CONF
that were in the reading.
And it's your job to identify which ones are true
NOTE CONF
and which ones are not.
And then we will go through through them one by
NOTE CONF
one, and we will comment on why each one is
true or false.
NOTE CONF
So I'll give you a few minutes to think about
this.
NOTE CONF
And then, um.
Then we will go through them together.
NOTE CONF
Okay, I see that almost 60 people have come in
with their question.
NOTE CONF
I'll give you one more minute to think about so
we can maybe get to 100.
NOTE CONF
Okay, we're almost there.
95 answers.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look at the other answers.
Okay, so, um, we have one, two.
NOTE CONF
And for being clearly in the lead for what you
think are the correct ones.
NOTE CONF
Three is fairly, uh, is a fairly shared opinion that
three is false and five mostly, but, uh, not really.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, I can already tell that you're doing well, but
NOTE CONF
let's go through them one by one just for the
fun of it.
NOTE CONF
Uh, statement one was every orthogonal set in n is
linearly independent.
NOTE CONF
You got most true.
Um, and this is in fact true.
NOTE CONF
You had a actually a theorem in the reading, um,
that says exactly this.
NOTE CONF
And, uh, let's try to talk for a few seconds.
Why is that?
NOTE CONF
Um, linearly independent means that any linear combination is zero
if and only.
NOTE CONF
Well, if a linear combination is zero, then the coefficient
must be zero.
NOTE CONF
There's no way of combining the sets um with non-zero
coefficients such that they they they returned the zero vector.
NOTE CONF
And why is orthogonality important here?
Well, because if all the vectors are two by two,
NOTE CONF
uh, are pairwise orthogonal, then there is no way of
cancelling out a vector uh with any of the others,
NOTE CONF
because all the others give an orthogonal component with respect
to that vector in the set, and so to get
NOTE CONF
zero we need to.
We need to zero out the coefficient of the vector,
NOTE CONF
giving out that first and that first that first direction.
This is the intuitive part.
NOTE CONF
Um, now let's try and prove it in a way
that it's a little bit more formal.
NOTE CONF
That was just, uh, me trying to give you the
idea and hand-waving it a little bit.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
Um, as I mentioned before, we want to show that
NOTE CONF
the set is linearly independent.
And so we need to take the linear combination and
NOTE CONF
set it equal to zero.
And we need to show that that implies t1 TC
NOTE CONF
must be zero.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
How can we isolate a direction.
Well that's what the scalar product is for.
NOTE CONF
So we can take the dot product of both sides
of the equation with x1.
NOTE CONF
So we're uh we know that the scalar product is
in a way a projection, and so we are projecting
NOTE CONF
the equation along the direction of x1.
And then my intuitive argument of before now will apply
NOTE CONF
in the sense that now that we have projected the
equation onto the direction of x1, x1 will be the
NOTE CONF
only one giving us contribution.
So if we want to cancel out the contribution in
NOTE CONF
that direction, we will need to we that will force
T1 to zero.
NOTE CONF
And then we can repeat projecting it around onto all
the vectors.
NOTE CONF
And because they're all pairwise orthogonal, then we will get
all of the coefficients of the linear combination equal to
NOTE CONF
zero.
Hence the vectors are linearly independent.
NOTE CONF
And this is really the concept of the proof.
Here I just formalise it a little bit.
NOTE CONF
And we have projected the equation by taking the dot
product with x1 on both sides, and everything goes away
NOTE CONF
because the vectors are pairwise orthogonal except the very first
term here.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
The vector.
NOTE CONF
This is the only the only one that's surviving.
And so we have zero equals t the length of
NOTE CONF
x one.
But, uh, x one cannot be zero because that's come
NOTE CONF
from the definition of being of being orthogonal.
Vectors are orthogonal if they're dot if their dot product
NOTE CONF
is zero but the vectors are non-zero.
So in here we already have the hypothesis that all
NOTE CONF
these vectors are non-zero.
And so the length is different from zero.
NOTE CONF
And then t one is equal from a is equal
to zero.
NOTE CONF
And then we project to t2 and this is on
x two.
NOTE CONF
And this will be the only one surviving.
And then we do that k times onto dk.
NOTE CONF
And we get that all the coefficients needs to be
zero.
NOTE CONF
Hence the set is linearly independent.
Excellent.
NOTE CONF
Any questions about this proof?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah, I forgot to put that on screen.
We just repeat everything k times.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Statement.
NOTE CONF
True.
Was, uh, the most widely loved, uh, the standard basis
NOTE CONF
or orthonormal?
And, yes, that is, of course, true.
NOTE CONF
That's part of the reason why it's taken as the
standard base.
NOTE CONF
And there's not really a proof here.
We just need to think about how these, uh, vectors
NOTE CONF
are constructed and then take the dot product between them.
And we will see that the dot product is equal
NOTE CONF
to one.
If we're taking the same two vectors and is equal
NOTE CONF
to zero if the two vectors are different from each
other.
NOTE CONF
And the reason is, well, of course, if it's the
same vector, the scalar product will be zero plus 0.0
NOTE CONF
plus zero.
But then the two ones meet at the same place.
NOTE CONF
We get plus one plus zero.
And everything works out as one.
NOTE CONF
If they're different, the two ones are in different positions,
so each one will be multiplied by the corresponding zero
NOTE CONF
and the whole dot product will be zero.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Any questions about the orthonormal base.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um next one.
Um, the length of a vector is the sum of
NOTE CONF
its components in modulo.
Of course, because the length needs to be, um, equal
NOTE CONF
or greater than zero.
And as you, as most of you, 93% of you
NOTE CONF
correctly identify, this is actually false.
And why is that?
NOTE CONF
Why is this wrong?
Anyone?
NOTE CONF
It should be discarded of the squares.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Thank you very much for that.
That is a corruption of the correct formula, which looks
NOTE CONF
like this.
Um, and there's really nothing to add here.
NOTE CONF
I just took the took the definition and made it
wrong in a way that could look vaguely correct because
NOTE CONF
both sides are greater than zero, but there's nothing more
to that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And then statement for if the dot product of two
NOTE CONF
vectors is equal to the product of their length.
Here I missed a balding formula.
NOTE CONF
Then the two vectors are multiples of each other.
You are most of you identifying this as true and
NOTE CONF
that is indeed correct.
Can I ask you why?
NOTE CONF
Or where where where did you take this result from?
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
You can find that cosine of theta equals one because.
That's not why you could not do that.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
That's that's a way of doing it which is contained
NOTE CONF
in the proof of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality.
Or you can just use the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality.
NOTE CONF
The second part of the Schwarz inequality says that the
the equality.
NOTE CONF
In consequence.
We will see that later.
NOTE CONF
So don't don't worry.
Is is actually inequality if and only if the vectors
NOTE CONF
are multiple from each other.
And normally it's right the other way around it's red.
NOTE CONF
If the vectors are multiple of each other, then that
equality is true.
NOTE CONF
But actually it's an if and only if.
And that was the point of this statement.
NOTE CONF
It works both ways.
Okay, so it's enough to check that the dot product
NOTE CONF
between two vectors is equal to the product of the
lengths to show that they are collinear, essentially.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, so yeah, this is, uh, um, this wrong is
NOTE CONF
within um, is within quotes because it's just the unusual
way of reading it.
NOTE CONF
But if and only if work both ways.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so I want to take a break of like,
10s before going to statement five and, um, remind you
NOTE CONF
of the whole of Cauchy-Schwarz inequality.
As you probably can tell from the videos that hopefully
NOTE CONF
you've watched the first video.
I really stress how important Cauchy-Schwarz is not only in
NOTE CONF
linear algebra, but across mathematics.
Um, it's just a very convenient way.
NOTE CONF
In mathematics.
We need to bound things all the time.
NOTE CONF
And the dot product is also very common in mathematics.
And so any inequality that bounds cross product is very
NOTE CONF
useful.
And I'm sure you will see 101 ways of applying
NOTE CONF
Cauchy-Schwarz in future courses.
So just something to, uh, keep with you, um, from
NOTE CONF
this course here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, statement five was, um, was this one the length
of x minus z is equal to the length of
NOTE CONF
x minus y plus y minus plus the length of
y minus z.
NOTE CONF
And most of you correctly identified this as false.
And um why is it false?
NOTE CONF
What did I corrupt here?
Because there you are saying that for each triangle, uh,
NOTE CONF
the length of one side is equal to the sum
of the other two lengths.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
It's actually an.
NOTE CONF
Inequality.
Yeah, that's exactly what what what I'm saying is, I'm
NOTE CONF
saying taking two sides of a triangle is as long
as taking the third one, which is not wrong.
NOTE CONF
How do I make it right?
Just.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I just put a smaller and equal two there.
Um, and, um, and I get the triangle inequality, which
NOTE CONF
is part of, uh, of today's topics.
And, um, a note that that, um, that, um, equality,
NOTE CONF
uh, applies if the three vectors are collinear.
I'm missing.
NOTE CONF
I'm missing something here.
I need to have both z and y a multiple
NOTE CONF
of x, because then the vectors are on the same
line, and therefore doing the two sides of the degenerate
NOTE CONF
triangle that all lies onto a single line is equal
to take the third one.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so if they're all collinear, then, uh, my claim
here in statement five would actually work.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so now, um, this is, uh, the most difficult
things the size of today.
NOTE CONF
So after this one, it's all going to be downhill.
No worries.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I've come up with three vectors in R5, which
is a is an unusually large vector space.
NOTE CONF
So that's why that's part of the reason why this
exercise is complicated.
NOTE CONF
And what I want to do here is to create,
uh, orthogonal set in R5.
NOTE CONF
So I want to take vectors from this set as
many as I want.
NOTE CONF
And I want to add vectors in such a way
that I have five, uh, um, orthogonal vectors in R5.
NOTE CONF
And uh, the question is how many parameters do I
need to express the generic vector that are perpendicular to
NOTE CONF
all three vectors?
Okay, so I have these three vectors in R5.
NOTE CONF
And what I want to do is to essentially complete
the orthogonal set.
NOTE CONF
So I want to account for the remaining dimensions which
are not taken up by this set.
NOTE CONF
And I'm asking you, uh, how many uh how many
parameters do I need to achieve that?
NOTE CONF
And the answer to this question, actually, let me hide
them very quickly, is you can have, uh, well, you
NOTE CONF
will see it on your device, but do I need
one parameter, two parameters, three parameters or four parameters?
NOTE CONF
I appreciate this question is a bit more complicated than
usual, so if it's not clear what I'm asking, I'm
NOTE CONF
happy to repeat and go over it again.
Uh, has.
NOTE CONF
Is everyone clear with my request.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
If you have any question, just raise your hand.
I'll give you probably five minutes for this one because
NOTE CONF
this one is tough.
Okay, I'll come around.
NOTE CONF
So stop me if you have any questions.
So, um, just to clarify things a little bit further,
NOTE CONF
if anyone has still any doubt.
Uh, nobody came up with any question, but I saw
NOTE CONF
some confused faces.
A scaled down version of that problem would be number
NOTE CONF
two.
Same problem, but smaller.
NOTE CONF
Uh, let's have this vector here.
Zero one the the same question.
NOTE CONF
How many parameters do we need to express the generic
version for the generic vector perpendicular to this one?
NOTE CONF
The answer is one, because, uh, the vectors that are
a multiple of one zero are all and only are
NOTE CONF
the ones and are all and only the vectors that
are perpendicular to this one in R2.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this is the the reasoning that I'm thinking
of that one is just a beefed up version of
NOTE CONF
this.
Okay, hope that helps with clarifying what I'm after.
NOTE CONF
Okay, I'm going to give you 30 more seconds to
finish voting now because we have two more questions after
NOTE CONF
this, which are easy, but I want to take my
time for that as well.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so last few seconds to submit your answer.
If you're still having voted, we're just about to.
NOTE CONF
And then we'll go through this together.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look at what you came up with.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
so there's a good split between 2 and 3.
Um, so we can go through this together right now.
NOTE CONF
But if someone who voted to and someone who voted
three is brave enough to tell me and the class
NOTE CONF
why they think the other answer is wrong, I would
highly appreciate that.
NOTE CONF
Completely optional.
You don't have to, but if you voted 2 or
NOTE CONF
3, which spoiler alerts?
The answer is one of the two and you think
NOTE CONF
the other one is wrong.
Can you tell me your reasoning?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So just, uh, just for everyone to hear what he
NOTE CONF
said.
He said so.
NOTE CONF
So you voted three.
He voted three.
NOTE CONF
And he thinks that two is wrong because one of
the vectors in the set is a linear combination of
NOTE CONF
the other two.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I'll leave that to, uh, to steam for a minute,
maybe try to discuss his observation, and then we will
NOTE CONF
do a raise of hands between 2 and 3 again.
Okay, so one more minute.
NOTE CONF
Discuss with that insight.
Um, is I'm telling you, the answer is not four
NOTE CONF
is not one.
It's either 2 or 3.
NOTE CONF
And then we will do a raise of hands.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Prepare yourself for your for the hand raising.
Uh, if you think the correct answer is we need
NOTE CONF
two parameters, please raise your hand now.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
If you think we need three parameters, raise your hand
now.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
That's, uh, less turnout than, uh, the last election, but
NOTE CONF
that's good.
Okay, let's, uh, let's actually go about and do it.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so that observation, thank you very much was the
winning one.
NOTE CONF
The answer is in fact, three.
And the reason is exactly that.
NOTE CONF
It's because the vectors are not linearly independent.
Um, but actually the third one is equal to the
NOTE CONF
sum of the two of the first two.
And so in particular, the span, the space of the
NOTE CONF
span of the two of the three vectors will be
equal to the span of the first two, because the
NOTE CONF
third one is already in the span putting it uh,
in, uh, in the in the set.
NOTE CONF
Generating the span doesn't really add anything to the span
itself.
NOTE CONF
And then there are two ways of thinking about this.
The first one is to think about dimension of subspaces
NOTE CONF
and dimensions of span.
The dimension of the span is equal to the dimension
NOTE CONF
of the number of linearly independent vectors.
So it's two and the dimension of the space is
NOTE CONF
five.
And so how many dimensions are left?
NOTE CONF
Uh, well, it's five minus two.
So we have three missing dimensions, one parameter per dimension
NOTE CONF
to parameterise.
Uh, the components along that specific dimension.
NOTE CONF
And we get three.
And this is an okay way of reasoning if you've
NOTE CONF
grown familiar enough with how dimension and hyperspace is work,
that's all good.
NOTE CONF
But if you're, um.
I'm sure we can always revert back to solving a
NOTE CONF
linear system.
Now, the vectors were given in a in a column
NOTE CONF
format, but we can always transpose them and nothing really
changes.
NOTE CONF
We just put them in line.
And then we can consider this system here.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Which is the system created by the first two vectors,
NOTE CONF
which are the linearly independent ones considered as rows of
an augmented matrix of a system.
NOTE CONF
And so we have five, uh, we have five variables
and we have two independent equations.
NOTE CONF
So how many parameters do we need to give out
the solution.
NOTE CONF
That will be three parameters okay.
And uh note that if I was to put the
NOTE CONF
uh the third equation in the one given by the
third vector, that wouldn't change, uh, that wouldn't change the
NOTE CONF
number of independent equation, because the third one would be
just the sum of the first two, because the vectors,
NOTE CONF
of course, are in relation with each other.
Okay, so this exercise was to give you an insight
NOTE CONF
of how dimensions and span and hyper spaces work in
higher dimension, which is exactly what we did here subconsciously
NOTE CONF
in a.
In essence, this vector here locks in one dimension, the
NOTE CONF
bottom one, the y dimension.
If we're in our two xy and we need how
NOTE CONF
many parameters do we need?
Well, we need as many parameters as we have three
NOTE CONF
dimensions which is one.
It's the x here.
NOTE CONF
And this works here as well.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Do you have any questions.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So the next question will be something a bit new
at least I've never tried it.
NOTE CONF
The next book club question is an ordering question without
please, without looking at the words proof on the book,
NOTE CONF
because that would be very easy.
I have created a blog, proof of the words inequality.
NOTE CONF
All the passages are in there, but they're all mixed
up.
NOTE CONF
Can you reorder to create a proof that makes sense?
And that is your next your next task.
NOTE CONF
So I'll give you a few minutes to think about
this.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so what I like about this exercise, I'm not
going to stop you quite yet, but it really helps
NOTE CONF
you to think about what logical step you can do
at some point.
NOTE CONF
And one tip that I give you is be careful
of using quantities or relations that you have not yet
NOTE CONF
introduced.
That would not give us a logically consistent proof.
NOTE CONF
So make sure that everything you use in a line
you have either in the hypothesis or you have introduced
NOTE CONF
it, uh, in a line above, because that is really
what, uh, logical consistency, uh, means in, uh, in the
NOTE CONF
context of proofs.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
30 more seconds to, um, finish this task because we
only have ten minutes left and we still have a
NOTE CONF
question, so I want to spare some time for that
one, even if the last one is very quick.
NOTE CONF
Okay, we are in 92.
If you can please finish voting, so maybe we can
NOTE CONF
reach 100 in this question as well then.
That would be great.
NOTE CONF
9899 100.
Okay, let's have a look at the, um, the most
NOTE CONF
common answers.
So the caveat here is that there's two versions that
NOTE CONF
works because two steps you can put in.
Either way, it doesn't matter because they're sort of independent.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay, I'm going to go through my reconstruction and
then you can, you can check along which, which answer
NOTE CONF
you, you have put down.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
What's inequality?
Um, how does it work?
NOTE CONF
Well, typically if we check special cases like this one,
um, if the vectors are zero, we can get rid
NOTE CONF
of them straight away.
It's a sort of a nuisance that we can deal
NOTE CONF
with at the beginning.
It's a very simple case.
NOTE CONF
Get it out straight up.
Uh, straight.
NOTE CONF
Straight ahead.
So, um, we check that if the vectors are the
NOTE CONF
zero vectors, there's nothing to prove.
We have zero less than or equal than zero, and
NOTE CONF
everything works.
Okay, so why do we do this?
NOTE CONF
Well, because then we can assume, uh, that, uh, a
is greater than zero and uh, y is, uh, Y's
NOTE CONF
length is greater than zero as well.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, now, um, this is where the two, um, interchangeable,
um, lines comes in.
NOTE CONF
As you can see, there are exactly the same.
I just calculate different quantities with a different sign in
NOTE CONF
there.
And so by calculating that equal to the cross product,
NOTE CONF
we can show two different inequalities.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And these two lines three and four you could put
in either in either order.
NOTE CONF
And these are really this is really the core of
the Cauchy-Schwarz proof, because then step five and six are
NOTE CONF
just tightening up three and four.
And so we have uh uh two quantities a, b
NOTE CONF
minus the, the scalar product greater than equal than zero
and ab plus the scalar product greater than zero.
NOTE CONF
So by reordering that we can conclude that the scalar
product sits between minus ab and ab, and that is
NOTE CONF
equivalent to writing the scalar product uh, smaller than the
absolute value of a and b, which then we can
NOTE CONF
write as the length.
Bye bye bye.
NOTE CONF
Point two.
Okay, so here you can see why we did 0.1
NOTE CONF
at the very beginning, because, uh, that allows us to
write step six, that the lengths are greater than zero.
NOTE CONF
So we can divide and move them around without any,
any worries.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so congratulations.
If you reconstructed the proof correctly and then we can
NOTE CONF
move to the last question we check out.
Very simple.
NOTE CONF
It's just a lecture summary.
So it's a multiple choice sort of complete the complete
NOTE CONF
the the sentence.
I'll give you a couple of minutes and then we
NOTE CONF
will we will tie up the lecture together um, by
going over these, um, together.
NOTE CONF
Okay, maybe we can just do the first one, get
it out of the way, because it's so simple.
NOTE CONF
Just scream the answer to me.
Two vectors, u and v, are said to be orthogonal
NOTE CONF
if their dot product is equal to.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Excellent.
What about number two?
NOTE CONF
The equality holds if and only if U and V
are.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Linearly independent.
NOTE CONF
And independent.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
I don't remember the, uh, I would say orthogonal, but
maybe orthogonal was not in the choices I made.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Also linearly independent would work.
NOTE CONF
Uh, no.
Or linearly dependent.
NOTE CONF
Oh, okay.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Number three.
The triangle inequality.
NOTE CONF
The length of the sum of the two vector is.
Someone tells me otherwise.
NOTE CONF
I have to peak less than or equal to.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Excellent.
Number four, the equality holds only a few.
NOTE CONF
And VR.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
That's the second part of the Cauchy-Schwarz again.
And now for number five and number six.
NOTE CONF
Let's go over them together.
Um, let's actually start from six just because it's easier.
NOTE CONF
Um, what is the maximum value of the scalar product
between um, two vectors?
NOTE CONF
Well, uh, the best we can do is to bound
the quantity.
NOTE CONF
With the Cauchy-Schwarz.
Right, we can uh um.
NOTE CONF
We can bounded above by the product of the length
and that that value is realised when the vectors are
NOTE CONF
collinear and oriented in the same direction.
So we can't bound them any stricter.
NOTE CONF
We can say, uh, less than 0.9, because we can
find two vectors for which that bound is not true,
NOTE CONF
and solution of five, which was by far the most
difficult of this of this one.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look.
Uh, yes, you did very well.
NOTE CONF
Um, this comes from the triangle inequality, and unlike the
others, this is not quite a straight, uh uh straight,
NOTE CONF
uh uh goal, but, uh, it's not too far off.
Um, we can, uh, Um.
NOTE CONF
We can use the triangle inequality, applying it to x
minus y plus y, and that it's greater than x
NOTE CONF
minus y.
Length plus y length.
NOTE CONF
And on the right hand side we get just the
length of x.
NOTE CONF
Because obviously y and minus y simplify on the left
hand side.
NOTE CONF
And then we can do the same thing with everything
reversed.
NOTE CONF
So now we have y equals y minus x plus
x.
NOTE CONF
And now note that we have that x minus y
is greater or equal than x minus y.
NOTE CONF
And it's also smaller equal than the other one.
And so we can conclude with the with the form
NOTE CONF
of uh um of the question.
So that is a, that is um, a consequence of
NOTE CONF
the triangle inequality.
It's 1:00.
NOTE CONF
So the lecture finishes here.
If you have any question, please come and see me.
NOTE CONF
Thank you very much for coming.